# Octalysis Framework for Gamification & Behavioral Design

> **Citation**
> Chou, Y. K. (2019). _Actionable gamification: Beyond points, badges, and leaderboards_. Packt Publishing Ltd.

## probs switch this out for a chatpt4 summary of him / his work because I've taken BA texts to a new page under "definitions"

A game is fun because it appeals to specific core drives within the users that motivate them towards certain activities. Different types of game techniques make use of different core drives that motivate us differently. The 6 core drives of gamification according to Chou (2019) are:

**Epic Meaning**: Users believe that they are doing something greater or that they are chosen to do something.

**Empowerment**: Users get engaged in a creative process where they have to figure things out repeatedly. It is necessary that they see the results of their creativity, receive feedback and have the possibility to respond in turn.

**Social Influence**: This core drive includes all social elements that drive people in general (e.g. competition, companionship, envy, social responses).

**Unpredictability**: Users want to find out what is going happen next. If they do not know what will happen, their brain think about it frequently and they remain engaged.

**Avoidance**: Users want to avoid something negative to happen.

**Scarcity**: Drives users that want something because they can’t have it.

**Ownership**: Motivates users by letting them feel to own something. Consequently, they want to make what they own better and own even more.

**Accomplishment**: Internal drive of users to make progress and enhance skills to overcome challenges.
