## What is Microlearning

The term Microlearning refers to a learning approach that bases its concept on short, and targeted information content, also called Microcontent. Such content is very topic specific and cannot be broken down into smaller pieces of content without any loss of meaning. In Microlearning, this Microcontent is used for the purpose of learning by transforming it into a Microlearning unit ([[Buchem & Hamelmann (2010)]]).

## What are the characteristics of Microlearning?
As Microlearning is based on the theory of Microcontent, a Microlearning unit only covers one distinguishable topical concept or idea. Another important characteristic of a Microlearning unit is, that it is self-contained. This means no further research or information is needed to fully understand its content. Furthermore, a Microlearning unit is designed as an interactive learning block, providing tools to edit texts, mind-map, or any other learner-including activity. With these interactive components, the learner is encouraged to explore and actively engage in the unit. Eventually, it should not take longer than 15 minutes to complete one unit and its content should be summarizable in a single sentence ([[Buchem & Hamelmann (2010)]]).

## Why is Microlearning useful?
With its short learning units, Microlearning can fit into everyday schedules, as it is easily accessible, saves time and can be completed at one’s own pace. Therefore, Microlearning overcomes the issue of the fast-moving world ([[Buchem & Hamelmann (2010)]]). However, it does not solve the problem of the learning motivation, which is key for the success of learning. Applying Microlearning to games or creating games that contain Microlearning elements solves this motivational problem, as games motivate and captivate people ([[Prensky (2001)]]). This linking is also known as [[Gamification]].